---
sip: 366
title: Asyncronous Delegation
network: Ethereum, Optimism & Base
status: Approved / Redacted ???
type: Governance
author: 'Afif (@aband1), Noah Litvin (@noahlitvin), Jared Borders (@jaredborders)'
created: 2024-03-04
proposal: >-
    https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0xfff673d535369488fed83333f397725ff36a0e45adcf9c2831e628f9e8bc4595
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP proposes adding functionality such that markets can require liquidity providers to first request a change in their delegation of collateral and then process it after a configurable delay.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

As an improvement over the Minimum Collateral Delegation Duration (per [SIP-320](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-320/)), this SIP proposes to replace the concept of a minimum delegation time with a pattern in which liquidity providers call a `requestDelegateCollateral` function, wait a `delegateCollateralDelay` or `undelegateCollateralDelay` (depending on whether their delegated collateral is increasing or decreasing), and then have anyone call a `processDelegateCollateral` function within a `delegateCollateralWindow` or `undelegateCollateralWindow` to apply the change.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

This functionality allows markets to prevent adversarial dynamics between liquidity providers. For example, if a liquidity provider anticipates a large increase or decrease in debt to a pool (without this feature enabled), they could quickly exit or enter the pool such that other liquidity providers assume the change. This is effectively a concern of "just-in-time liquidity."

Note that this functionality would be implemented in addition to the Core System Precautionary Security Features (per [SIP-316](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-316/)).

## Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

It would be possible to have governance or pool owners configure these values rather than having market builders decide on the configuration, but this would complicate liquidity provisioning for all integrators, as it makes delegation non-atomic. Further, because the opportunities of adversarial liquidity provisioning are specific to a market's implementations, it makes sense to configure these values in this way.

## Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

### `MarketManagerModule` & `IMarketManagerModule`

Replace logic and state associated with the minimum delegation time by omitting `minDelegationTime` and its respective setter method (`setMarketMinDelegateTime`) with the following logic and state associated with the delegation delay and window functionality:

1.  `unit256 undelegateCollateralDelay` and its respective setter method `setUndelegateCollateralDelay`
2.  `unit256 undelegateCollateralWindow` and its respective setter method `setUndelegateCollateralWindow`
3.  `unit256 delegateCollateralDelay` and its respective setter method `setDelegateCollateralDelay`
4.  `unit256 delegateCollateralWindow` and its respective setter method `setDelegateCollateralWindow`

All of these values should be configurable only by the market.

### `Vault` & `IVault`

#### Intents

Define the following object (i.e., `struct`) that defines all aspects of an **intent** to _delegate_ or _undelegate_ collateral. This object should closely resemble/encapsulate the following:

```solidity
struct DelegateCollateralIntent {
    /**
     * @notice The ID of the pool for which the account has an
     * outstanding intent to delegate a new amount of collateral to
     */
    uint128 poolId;
    /**
     * @notice The address of the collateral type that the account has an
     * outstanding intent to delegate a new amount of
     */
    address collateralType;
    /**
     * @notice The amount of collateral that the account has an
     * outstanding intent to delegate a new amount of to the pool,
     * denominated with 18 decimals of precision
     */
    uint256 collateralAmountD18;
    /**
     * @notice The intended amount of leverage associated with the new
     * amount of collateral that the account has an outstanding intent
     * to delegate to the pool
     */
    uint256 leverage;
    /**
     * @notice The timestamp at which the intent was registered
     */
    uint256 timestamp;
    /**
     * @notice The timestamp before which the intent cannot be processed
     * @dev dependent on
     * {VaultModule.undelegateCollateralDelay} or
     * {VaultModule.delegateCollateralDelay}
     */
    uint256 delay;
    /**
     * @notice The timestamp after which the intent cannot be processed
     * (i.e., intent expiry)
     * @dev dependent on
     * {VaultModule.undelegateCollateralWindow} or
     * {VaultModule.delegateCollateralWindow}
     */
    uint256 window;
}
```

#### Storage

Add the following `delegateCollateralIntents` field to the `Data` `struct` to store an array of all outstanding intents for a given account in a mapping:

```solidity
mapping(uint128 accountId => DelegateCollateralIntent[]) delegateCollateralIntents;
```

> Note: Because `delegateCollateralIntents` is a `struct` type array, it is not possible to upgrade the `DelegateCollateralIntent` `struct` without breaking storage compatibility. Therefore, future changes to the `DelegateCollateralIntent` `struct` should be made with caution. (refer to this [article](https://medium.com/@0xFluffyBeard/migrating-the-eip-2535-diamond-storage-layout-cb28b9c47e71) for a practical guide on how to handle storage migrations in a similar storage layout architecture).

### `VaultModule` & `IVaultModule`

#### Events

Add the following event to emit when an intent to delegate a new amount of collateral is successfully processed:

```solidity
DelegateCollateralProcessed(
    uint128 accountId,
    uint128 poolId,
    address collateralType,
    uint256 collateralAmountD18,
    uint256 leverage
);
```

Add the following event to emit when an intent to delegate a new amount of collateral is successfully registered:

```solidity
DelegateCollateralRequested(
    uint128 accountId,
    uint128 poolId,
    address collateralType,
    uint256 collateralAmountD18,
    uint256 leverage
);
```

#### Submitting Intents

Add the following function to **request** an intent to delegate a new amount of collateral to be registered (refer to the NatSpec annotations for further implementation guidance):

```solidity
/**
 * @notice Register an intent to delegate a new amount of collateral
 * @dev The {msg.sender} is not necessarily the account owner but it
 * must be authorized to act on behalf of the account
 * @param accountId The ID of the account intending to delegate a new
 * amount of collateral
 * @param poolId The ID of the pool to which the account intends to
 * delegate a new amount of collateral
 * @param collateralType The address of the collateral type that the
 * account intends to delegate
 * @param newCollateralAmountD18 The new amount of collateral that
 * the account intends to delegate, denominated with 18 decimals of
 * precision
 * @param leverage The new intended leverage used in the position
 */
function requestDelegateCollateral(
    uint128 accountId,
    uint128 poolId,
    address collateralType,
    uint256 newCollateralAmountD18,
    uint256 leverage
) public;
```

The `requestDelegateCollateral` function should:

1. Verify the caller is authorized to act on behalf of the account.
2. Confirm that the account has sufficient collateral.
3. Register an intent to delegate a new amount of collateral with the parameters passed to it.
4. Emit a `DelegateCollateralRequested` event.

#### Escrowed Collateral

In scenarios where the `newCollateralAmountD18` is larger than the amount currently delegated (i.e., the intent is to increase the collateral amount delegated to a pool), the `requestDelegateCollateral` function must ensure the account has sufficient collateral, exactly as is currently required by the `delegateCollateral` function.

Furthermore, if the account possesses sufficient collateral, the `requestDelegateCollateral` function must then escrow the additional collateral amount in the account's balance. This escrowed amount should be released only under the following conditions:

1. The intent is successfully processed
2. The intent expires
3. The account is liquidated

To summarize, for an intent that aims to increase the collateral delegated to a pool to be successfully registered, the account must have a sufficient amount of collateral to cover the new collateral amount intended to be delegated to a pool, as defined in previous iterations. Additionally, the account must possess an unescrowed amount of collateral equal to or exceeding the difference between the new and the current collateral amounts delegated to the pool.

##### Definitions and Preconditions

-   Let `P` denote a specific collateral pool.
-   Let `⍺` represent the total collateral available to an account, as established in previous iterations.
-   Let `β` denote the amount of collateral currently delegated to (`P`).
-   Let `γ` denote the new collateral amount intended to be delegated to (`P`).
-   Let `δ` represent the total amount of collateral currently in escrow.
-   Let `φ` denote the portion of the escrowed collateral specifically intended for (`P`).

###### Formal Representation

The process for adjusting the collateral delegated to pool (`P`) is governed by the following conditions:

If `⍺ >= (γ - β) + δ`, then execute the operation; otherwise, revert the transaction.

Upon satisfying this condition, the adjustment to the escrowed collateral (`δ`) is calculated as follows:

`δ = (δ - φ) + (γ - β)`

Where:

- (`δ`) signifies the updated total amount of collateral in escrow after the operation.
- The operation (`γ - β`) calculates the net increase in the collateral amount intended to be delegated to (`P`).
- The operation (`δ - φ`) adjusts the original escrow amount by subtracting the portion previously allocated for (`P`), ensuring that (`δ`) reflects the correct total escrow balance post-transaction.

#### Processing Intents

Add the following function to **process** an outstanding intent to delegate a new amount of collateral (refer to the NatSpec annotations for further implementation guidance):

```solidity
/**
 * @notice Attempt to process an outstanding intent to delegate a
 * new amount of collateral
 * @dev The {msg.sender} can be any address
 * @param accountId The ID of the account for which the outstanding
 * intent to delegate a new amount of collateral is being processed
 * @param poolId The ID of the pool for which the intent of the account
 * to delegate a new amount of collateral is being processed
 * @param collateralType The address of the collateral type that the
 * account has an outstanding intent to delegate a new amount of
 */
function processDelegateCollateral(
    uint128 accountId,
    uint128 poolId,
    address collateralType
) public;
```

The `processDelegateCollateral` function should (confirmation order is up to the implementer's discretion):

1. Confirm that the position's collateralization ratio will not drop below the issuance ratio if the delegation change is processed.
2. Be permissionlessly callable so anyone can process an open intent.
3. Confirm that a corresponding intent exists in storage.
4. Confirm that the timestamp recorded upon intent submission exceeds the current timestamp plus the relevant delay value.
5. Confirm that the timestamp recorded upon intent submission does not exceed the current timestamp plus the relevant delay value and the relevant window value.
6. Update the collateral amount delegated to the pool as per the intent.
7. Release the escrowed collateral amount associated with the intent.
8. Remove the intent from storage.
9. Emit a `DelegateCollateralProcessed` event.

#### Delegating Collateral Entry Point

The `delegateCollateral` function should call `requestDelegateCollateral` and/or `processDelegateCollateral` as appropriate and be backward compatible with the existing `delegateCollateral` function. It should first attempt to register an intent to delegate a new amount of collateral with the parameters passed to it. Following this, it should attempt to process any outstanding intents associated with the `accountId` specified.

In situations where an account has an outstanding intent that is ready to be processed but no new intent is being registered, `processDelegateCollateral` should be called directly.

In situations where an account has no outstanding intents, `requestDelegateCollateral` should be called directly.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Relevant tests will be developed during implementation.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

N/A

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
